--- Page 1 ---
 
High line process parameters  
 
The process for money lending at Ho Hema Loans is structured to ensure responsible and efficient 
service for clients. Below is a typical flow outlining the key steps:  
1. Initial Inquiry: The client, typically an employee, expresses interest in obtaining a short -term 
or advance loan.  This will be done through the WhatsApp platform with an automated bot 
prompting  the applicant to sup ply input data in terms of expenses and amount required. At 
this stage the system must advise already on the applicants qualified amount, not allowing 
applicants  to request advance more than that amount  
2. Affordability Assessment: Ho Hema Loans conducts a full affordability assessment, as 
required by the National Credit Act 34 of 2005, for all applications —regardless of approval 
outcome.  Adjustable parameters will be set up within the  Ho Hema  software , and again all 
input will be done through WhatsApp.  
3. Employer Engagement: Ho Hema works with the employer to establish advance credit 
guidelines tailored to their business and staff needs.  These perimeters will be set up per 
customer within the Ho Hema software.  
4. Application Submission: The client submits a loan application following the procedures 
agreed upon between Ho Hema and the employer  via WhatsApp.  
5. Loan Processing: The  Ho Hema  software  validates employment  with time and attendance 
software and withdraws important information  such as ID, pay slip, and employment  date  
from payroll system . The source reference will be the ID number .  
6. Approval: Upon successful assessment,  an agreement  must be forwarded to employee for 
approval. This agreement must contain an AOD  and will be legitimized through an OTP sent  
to the applicant.  the approved loan amount is disbursed to the client, typically as an advance 
on wages already earned in the current wage cycle.  
7. Disbursement of Funds: Once an advance has been approved the Ho Hema software will 
create upload into bank, and prompt Administrator for release . If immediate payment is 
required,  the system will escalate release within time perimeters . 
8. Repayment: The hosting software will  create a deduction schedule with reference to the 
AOD amount  and reference that will be sent  to the payroll system at cut off. date. The 
option for both manual schedule reports  as well as  automated system integration will be 
necessary.  
This process ensures that both the client and the employer are fully informed and that all lending 
practices remain compliant with regulatory requirements.  
 
 

--- Page 2 ---
 
Ho Hema Product  
Advance : An advance payment to a customer has no interest and only has a transactional fee . There 
is no interest accumulated . Validation is done on shifts accumulated for the mont h 
Short Term Loan : This is a loan where payment terms do not exceed three months. Monthly interest 
is raised,  and validation is made against affordability, and leave accumulated  
It is important to note that Short term loans are regulated by NCR and therefor needs to be 
reported on under a separate basket . Advance payments are purely access to funds already 
earned where a short -term  loan is based on surety  determined by the value of the applicants  
leave as well as funds earned.  
PRODUCT  FEES INCLUDED  VALIDATION  
Advance Payment  Transactional Fee, flat rate i.e. 
R 60 per transaction  Value of shifts accumulated , 
based on days worked, capped 
at set parameter  
Short Term Loan  Initiation  Fee (percentage 
adjustable)  but capped within 
NCR  
Admin. Fee value adjustable  
but capped within NCR  
Interest 5% in first loan within 
calendar  year , an 3% 
thereafter  
 Validation against Shifts 
worked for the month as well 
as leave accumulated. Capped 
amount of 25%  of shifts and 
full va lue of leave  
 
Ho Hema Software  
The Ho Hema software will integrate with the time and attendance system, for validation of shifts, as 
well as payroll system, for validation of employment (and associated information such as ID nr., 
employment date, leave accumulated etc.) . It will also “house” the input data details such as 
affordability and ID and Bank Account details as s well as FAQ, processes and tutorial video’s.  
The s et up of the parameters  to each client will be tailor -made . Perimeters will include.  
• Short -term loans transactional fees  
a) Initiation fee  
b) Admin. Fee 
c) Term  
d) Interest is dictated to by regulation  
• Advance  
a) Transactional Fee  

--- Page 3 ---
 
Engagement Platform  
The engagement platform wil l be WhatsApp Busine ss. This will be the only medium which will 
facilitate communication with the applicant . It will however integrate with the  Ho Hema software 
and facilitate input into Ho Hema software.  Response  will be automated through a bot and 
discrepancies in input escalated to Administrator.  
Detailed Process  
Phase 1: Pre Set Up  
Establishing Parameters  
Ho Hema Loans will present to a prospective customer.  
• Product Basket and Fees  
• Integration  
• System security  
• Product advantages  
During this we will establish the following parameters.  
• Product offering  
• Quantum Parameters  
a) Value  
b) Employee profile (years, grade)  
c) Integration feasibility  
Phase 2: Set up 
Hosting Software set up with:  
• Client Logo  and names in generic docs such as welcome docs and processes and FAQ  
• Loan Parameters and Calculator  
• Set up WhatsApp bot with welcome note  and references  to customer specific docs  
Phase 3: Integration  
a) Set UP integration with time and attendance and payroll system . Download employee 
details  
• ID nr.  
• Employee no. 
• Date engages  

--- Page 4 ---
 
• Leave accrued  
• Rate of pay  
• Phone Number  
b) Integration into payroll for deduction schedule  
c) Integration into bank  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 5 ---
 
Process Steps  
Step 1 Introduction  
All employees with details downloaded as per set parameters  receives a WhatsApp with 
introduction communication from Ho Hema . Below example with two dropdowns:  
DROPDOWN  
a) I AM INTERESTED TO KNOW MORE  
b) I WOULD LIKE TO APPLY  
 
a) I AM INTERESTED TO KNOW MORE  
DROP DOWN  
• WHO IS HO HEMA LOANS  
• WHAT DO WE OFFER  
• OUR RATES  
• HOW DOES IT WORK  
• I WOULD LIKE TO APPLY  
b) I WOULD LIKE TO APPLY  
Step 2 Application  
c) I WOULD LIKE TO APPLY  
 
DROPDOWN  
a) SHORT TERM LOAN  
b) ADVANCE PAYMENT  
 
1. SHORT TERM LOAN  
1. Enter ID No  
2. Please upload picture of ID  
System Validate s active employees  against ID nr  
Pulls all relevant information from  payroll   
o Employee no  
o Phone number  


--- Page 6 ---
 
o Remuniration for three months  
o ID no 
o Leave accumulated  
o Bank account no  
Pulls all relevant information from  T&A system  
o Shifts accumulated  
Note  
(Calculates shifts accumulated  against rate to determine wage due)  
 
3. ID validation successful  
WhatsApp  
 
DROPDOWN  
a) Applicant enters company number  (Next level validation  against employee number ) 
b) I DO NOT KNOW MY EMPLOYEE NUMBER  
System validated against phone number  
1.  
2. Thank you , please enter your expenses   
DROP Down BELOW  
 


--- Page 7 ---
 
Note  
In the back ground  system confirms downloaded remuneration and does calculation based on 
expenses  
 
 
 
 
Step 3: Quote  
 
 
 
DROPDOWN  
A. (BOX NOT ALLOWING APLICANT TO ENTER M ORE THAN Max AMMOUNT REFERRED 
TO 
System calculated repayment amount and send quote  
Quote has detailed breakdown of all fees and term  
 
 


--- Page 8 ---
 
 
 
B. I AM NO LONGER INTERESTED    
DROPDOWN  
1. I AGREE PLEASE  SEND  CONTRACT  
2. I AM NO LONGER INTERESTED  
 
 
DROPDOWN  
o Account Holder  
o Bank (Dropdown)  
o Account Number  
System verifies this against payroll, must be same  
 
Step 4: Contract  
System send contract  
DROPDOWN  
1. AGREE WITH TERMS AND CONDITIONS PLEASE SEND OTP  
2. I AM NO LONGER INTERESTED  
 
I DO NOT AGREE WITH TERMS  
I NO LONGER NEED THE MONEY  
 
AGREE WITH TERMS AND CONDITIONS PLEASE SEND OTP  
System Send O TP 
 
Applicant enters OTP  


--- Page 9 ---
 
Step 5: Deduction Schedule  
System adds all employee deductions to schedule  
o Per employee number  
o Name and surname  
o ID number  
o Deductible amount  
o Term  
o Unique ref. Number  
 
Step 6: Payment of Funds  
System generates Payment amount  
Generates schedule  
Upload schedule into bank  
Release payment in batch  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

